# Saci Backend
> This is the backend module of the Saci project, its purpose is to serve as a comprehensive guide and learning tool for aspiring software engineers.

## General Overview
- Programmed in **Java** with the support of **Spring**;
- It's integrated with a **MySQL** database;
- Uses **Flyway** for automated database migrations and versioning;
- Follows a **DDD (Domain Driven Design)** architecture.

## Getting Started
### Development Environment Setup
### Run Database
```bash
$ docker-compose up -d
```
### Installation
```bash
$ mvn clean install
```
### Run
```bash
$ mvn spring-boot:run -"Dspring-boot.run.profiles"=local
```
Default page: http://localhost:8080

## How to manage database migrations
Migrations will be done through the usage of the framework **Flyway**, which allows to place schema migration scripts in the 
same repository as the code, achieving direct versioning of the scripts alongside the versioning of the application.

### How does Flyway work:
Spring will inject automatically into Flyway it's database configuration from the datasource property inside _application.yml_.
With that, when starting the Spring application, Flyway will go, by default, to the package _*resources/db/migration_ and runs all the sql scripts (_*.sql_ files) inside it.
If you want to change the package that Flyway loads the files it must be used in the following property inside _application.yml_:
```
spring.flyway.locations: classpath:db/migration/example1,classpath:db/migration/example2
```
The sql files must have the following convention: _V1__Example.sql_
- _V1_: This will specify the version (in this case 1) to Flyway;
  - If there is a small version change to 1.1 it should be _V1_1_
- _Example_: Description of what the script will do;
- __: Separator between version and description.

**Note:** Flyway saves the history of migrations inside a table automatically generated by it, the default name is
_flyway_schema_history_ and contains important information about each migration file, like version, description, script, checksum, date.

### Update Flyway changes through maven plugin:
- Validate the migration:
  ```bash
  $ mvn flyway:validate 
  ``` 
- If there is a conflict with another version:
  - Expected:
    - Cleans all history of Flyway table (avoid at all costs in production):
      ```bash
      $ mvn flyway:clean 
      ``` 
      **OR**
    - Delete the conflicting record from the database, for instance for the script **_V1_**__Exmple.sql (version 1):
      ```
      DELETE FROM flyway_schema_history WHERE version = 1;
      ``` 
  - Unexpected:
    - Ignore the changes and migration isn't done:
      ```bash
      $ mvn flyway:repair 
      ``` 
      **OR**
    - Manually reverting the changed sql file, for example through git.
- If everything is good for the migration, then run the command:
  ```bash
  $ mvn flyway:migration 
  ``` 
- To check the migration history:
  ```bash
  $ mvn flyway:info 
  ```
**Note:** To be able to use Flyway maven plugin (_mvn flyway_) it is required the access to some configurations (database related)
which unfortunately can't be automatized through Spring at the moment.
To abstract those mandatory configurations from the _pom.xml_ it can be used a Flyway configuration file (flyway.conf)
and the maven Flyway command should be run in the same location as of the configuration file (root of project in this case).

### Other possible Flyway properties:
```
spring.flyway.sql-migration-prefix: V
spring.flyway.repeatable-sql-migration-prefix: R
spring.flyway.sql-migration-separator: __
spring.flyway.sql-migration-suffixes: .sql
spring.flyway.schemas: schema1, schema2
```
Disable Flyway execution on the run of the Spring App:
```
spring.flyway.enabled: false
```
